
# ArchData - A Data Availability Project (for the Paleolithic)

We have collected here links to a number of archaeological datasets
mostly relevant to Paleolithic research. We have also included code to
give examples of how to easily access these data in R. You will not find
data here (unless it is our own), but rather pointers to data and
methods for easily pulling these data into your projects. Our idea is to
create a decentralized archaeological database. We hope that this will
be a valuable resource for researchers looking for comparative data, for
teachers looking for example datasets, and for students looking to
develop their data analysis skills.

If you have contributions to add please either contact us or get
involved via Git.

David R. Braun and Shannon P. McPherron

## Table of Contents

### Lithic attribute data

[Grove and Blinkhorn 2020 - east African MSA and LSA
assemblages](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Grove%20and%20Blinkhorn%202020)

[Mraz et al. 2020 - Experimental data on heating
lithics](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Mraz%20et%20al%202019)

[Reti 2016 - Oldowan and experimental flake
data](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Reti%202016)

[Rezek et al. 2018 - Flakes with EPA and
PD](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Rezek%20et%20al%202018)

### 3D Models

[Herzlinger and Goren-Inbar 2019 - Handaxes from
GBY](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Herzlinger%20and%20Goren-Inbar%202019)

[Lombao et al. 2019 - Experimental core
reduction](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Lombao%20et%20al%202019)

[Lombao et al. 2020 - Experimenal flakes and
cores/handaxes](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Lombao%20et%20al%202020)

[Morales et al. 2015 - Scans of blades before and after
retouch](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Morales%20et%20al%202015)

### Spatial data

[McPherron 2018 - La Ferrassie artifact
orientations](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/McPherron%202018)

[Ruebens et al. 2015 - Chatelperronian
assemblages](https://github.com/davidrbraun/ArchData/tree/master/Ruebens%20et%20al%202015)

## Additional data and tools

[c14bazAAR - R tools to pull and analyze radiocarbon data
sets](https://github.com/ropensci/c14bazAAR)

[ctv-archaeology - R tools and packages for working with archaeological
data](https://github.com/benmarwick/ctv-archaeology)
